# Sahayata
SAHAYATA GRIVIENCE CELL focuses on collecting complaints from different users (tier 1 for now ) and providing  authenticated data based on polls to higher authorities for further consideration and verdict on the same. The need of our software arises when a lot of users face issues that are unpopular and find no place to talk about it socially. Such a software will increase the extent of citizen participation and help them become active in the process of city design which is important for the success of the Smart Cities Mission. The empowered and enlightened citizenry of today is far more demanding and the government, therefore, has to develop, evolve and enable itself to meet the evolving demands of the society that it has to serve. The society today is impatient with the old system of governance which is not coming up to its expectations. To them, a government employee is perceived as insensitive, aloof, corrupt and overall the administrative system as autocratic, opaque and with no work culture.

**IMPLEMENTATION**

There a total of three major features in our website. Starting with ‘Post Grievance’ where only the registered users get to fill a complaint form. Along with this, photos (with geo-tags) and videos related to the complaint must also be submitted to support the complaint form. Geo-tag pictures help avoid false registrations. The input of the complaint is taken in the form of sub categories that segregates data in the backend. A unique track id is generated at the end of complaint registration. After successful submission of the complaint the user can use the track grievance feature. This activates another feature of the website where the user can’ track the status of their complaint’ with this id. This will give the user a response as to weather his/her complaint is pending or sent for consideration to respective authorities or resolved. In case of resolving the issue, a mail will be also be sent to the user. In case of no response from the authorities’ side, a ‘reminder mail’ will be sent again with ‘updation of polls’ withing 5 days.Second major feature in the website is that of ‘Polls’. Each complaint that has been registered will be open for a poll. Users can come and vote according to the will if they find the complaint worthy. If the votes reach a maximum of 55 percent, meaning it has gathered potential mass support, a collective complaint along with the record collection of the polls must be sent to the respective concerned authority (lets say, the various faculties of the pwd department). Here by the use of polls ,we have overcome the overhead of physical verification of the issue raised, by the designated employees
and officials of the public works department (which is existing implementable model right now) . Third major feature in the website is that of ‘Joining a Drive’. We look forward on bringing NGOs and Social Clubs onboard which helps in building a sense of community which in turn also allows the user to actively participate in the society and become aware. There must be a number of users who would want to initiate a drive but without having mass support it would be futile. This feature provides individuals the option to gather people and be a contribution to the good cause. There is another concept of joining ‘e-drives’. Users from far away ends can connect and support a drive. People from different cities can be a part of the same event at the same time without having to step outside.

**How exactly are we approaching the higher authorities?**

After registration of a complaint, We will send mail to the concerned authorities, reminder mails will be sent after an interval of 10 days if not reverted back.

We will use social media platforms to create a greater community of people, we will post our polls on the complaint registered to get that circulated among people that will redirect them to our website.

We will collaborate with local newspapers to reach more and more people, and we will provide them a section on our website and viceversa.
